---
title: "Efemp1 modulates elastic fiber formation and mechanics of the extrahepatic bile duct"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2021-12-07-efemp1-duct.
excerpt: 'This paper is about fixing template issue #693.'
date: 2021-12-07
venue: 'bioRxiv'
paperurl: 'http://academicpages.github.io/files/paper3.pdf'
citation: 'Roberts, Emilia. (2021). &quot;Efemp1 modulates elastic fiber formation and mechanics of the extrahepatic bile duct.&quot; <i>bioRxiv</i>.'
---

EGF-Containing Fibulin Extracellular Matrix Protein 1 (EFEMP1, also called fibulin 3) is an extracellular
matrix protein linked in a genome-wide association study to biliary atresia, a fibro-inflammatory disease
of the neonatal extrahepatic bile duct. EFEMP1 is expressed in most tissues and Efemp1 null mice have
decreased elastic fibers in visceral fascia; however, in contrast to other short fibulins (fibulins 4 and 5),
EFEMP1 does not have a role in the development of large elastic fibers, and its overall function remains
unclear. We demonstrated that EFEMP1 is expressed in the submucosa of both neonatal and adult mouse
and human extrahepatic bile ducts and that, in adult Efemp1+/- mice, elastin organization into fibers is
decreased. We used pressure myography, a technique developed to study the mechanics of the
vasculature, to show that Efemp1+/- extrahepatic bile ducts are more compliant to luminal pressure,
leading to increased circumferential stretch. We conclude that EFEMP1 has an important role in the
formation of elastic fibers and mechanical properties of the extrahepatic bile duct. These data suggest
1
The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted December 7, 2021. ; https://doi.org/10.1101/2021.12.05.471313 doi: bioRxiv preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission.
that altered expression of EFEMP1 in the extrahepatic bile duct leads to an abnormal response to
mechanical stress such as obstruction, potentially explaining the role of EFEMP1 in biliary atresia.